When a human being breathes, his lungs get dilated and contracted. These organs are responsible for transporting the oxygen towards the blood, and they eliminate the toxic carbon dioxide. However, the air we breathe can consist of various toxic compounds which could deteriorate the lungs. This disorder can heal the human body with the help of some nutritious substances.

There are certain foods which can give our lungs high dosages of essential nutrient substances that will keep them healthy as long as possible. These foods can support the human body in recovering from certain diseases which affect the lungs severely. The list is quite big, but some essential foods can maintain your lungs’ health.

##Antioxidants
Several studies reveal that, up until this moment, those individuals dealing with pulmonary diseases that are obstructive and chronic, happen to have a low level of antioxidants within their body. Antioxidants are known to be those nutritious substances that have an essential role in protecting the human body’s cells against various types of damages.

Researchers were able to conclude that a low level of antioxidants within the blood can represent one of the main causes leading to chronic asthma. Therefore, a diet filled with antioxidants containing vitamin C and flavonoids could considerably take part in supporting a proper and healthy respiratory function.

The best antioxidant sources are believed to be fresh fruits and vegetables. Among these, the ones that are the top of the list are forest fruits, greeneries, tomatoes, peppers, and cherries. Most health experts recommend that you provide for your body as much and as diverse colored fruits and veggies as you can to achieve the highest amounts of antioxidants coming from foods, through the natural way.  

##Dairy products are a “no- no.”
If you happen to experience pulmonary disturbances, there is one thing you can do and which will, at least, avoid the disease become more severe and aggressive with your lungs’ health. You should consider giving up to dairy products, several health specialists recommend.

Casein, an essential protein found in milk, is believed to have the capacity of increasing the mucus production within your lungs, a common issue which is unique to the majority of lungs’ health problems. Therefore, if you like your milk with cereals each morning, at breakfast or if you are crazy about fat yogurt with fruits, you should have second thoughts if you find yourself in the middle of a struggle against lungs’ disorders. 

##Boost your magnesium intake
The multiple studies carried out in the vitamins and nutrients’ world have revealed that a normal and healthy level of magnesium within the human body plays an essential role in the normal functioning our lungs. In addition to this, researchers concluded that any severe deficit in this vitamin could seriously take part in decreasing the pulmonary functioning system.
But you do not have to worry because mother nature has come up with several foods that can assure your necessary quantity of magnesium. You can naturally get your vitamin from integral cereals, green veggies, especially spinach, nuts and peanuts, mainly almonds, seeds, beans, and bananas. 

Fish and omega 3 fatty acids are the answer
Try to include into your daily diets fish or seeds. In fact, you do not have to eat every single day of your life fish because it is healthy, but two or three times per week should be more than enough. Omega 3 fatty acids, which are found in fish’s fats, are well known to give additional protection to your lungs. 

These fatty acids are known to decrease the inflammation which can frequently be associated with chronic respiratory diseases. By adding fish into your menu, twice per week should be more than your lungs could ever dream of. Some types of fish consist of high mercury amounts, and if you frequently eat it, you might get some health disorders. Try to be moderate and bring diversity into your eating habits.

Give water to your lungs
Water is essential for keeping your lungs healthy. Moreover, if your lungs are already irritated, due to a particular dysfunction, they become even more sensitive to certain stimuli. Anybody, to be properly hydrated, should drink 6 or eight glasses of water each day.



##Coffee
Everybody knows that a cup of coffee in the morning can wake up even the laziest person alive, at least this is what most coffee lovers would say. But what would you say if I tell you that coffee can also bring some good stuff for your lungs’ health?

Several studies have revealed that if you drink a cup of coffee or a maximum of two cups of coffee each day, you can get high chances of improving the pulmonary function. In addition to this, it has been proven that coffee can reduce the symptoms related to asthma. As you may have already guessed, all these benefits are available thanks to caffeine, the essential substance found in coffee. 

Summing it all up
We are living toxic and chaotic times and taking care of our body’s health can represent a huge challenge sometimes. We are exposed daily to toxins and all sorts of polluted environments that, at some point, our natural protective body’s system is not able anymore to face the struggle. 

Therefore, it is our most important job to provide our health, hence our lungs, the best foods that we can find, because getting vitamins, nutrients and all the goods that our body needs to function each day accurately, is mandatory and also the best and safest option.
